---
title: Monitoring Machine Learning Models
author: arka
date: 2023-03-17 10:35:00 +0530
categories: [content]
tags: [MLOps]
pin: true
---

## Monitoring
Machine learning monitoring is the process of tracking and analyzing the performance of ML models over time to ensure they are functioning as intended. It involves monitoring key performance metrics, such as accuracy and precision, and detecting anomalies or drifts in the data. ML monitoring is essential to ensure that models are making accurate predictions and to identify potential issues before they become critical problems. Proper monitoring helps improve the reliability and effectiveness of ML models and ensures that they continue to deliver value over time.

## Tools for ML monitoring

There are several popular machine learning monitoring software available in the market, some of which are:

* <b>TensorBoard</b>: Developed by Google, TensorBoard is a popular tool for monitoring and visualizing machine learning models built with TensorFlow.
<br>


* <b>Neptune.ai</b>: A cloud-based platform for experiment management and model monitoring, Neptune.ai allows users to track model performance metrics and generate interactive reports.
<br>

* <b>MLflow</b>: Developed by Databricks, MLflow is an open-source platform for managing and deploying machine learning models. It includes tools for tracking experiments, managing models, and deploying them to various platforms.

<br>

* <b>Kubeflow</b>: An open-source platform for building, deploying, and managing machine learning models on Kubernetes, Kubeflow includes monitoring and logging tools for tracking model performance and resource utilization.
<br>

* <b>Datadog</b>: A cloud-based monitoring platform, Datadog includes tools for monitoring machine learning models in real-time, detecting anomalies, and generating alerts.

## Example

We will try to show a simple example by developing an ml model and then using the popular tool <b>MLflow</b> to monitor its progress---